MINIBUS
=======
  pages v1.77.0 · server w2.18.0 · sheet v1.82.0


YOU ARE ON              GOING TO
  Pages   v1.74.10        v1.77.0
  Worker  w2.15.0         w2.18.0
  Code.gs v1.79.0         v1.82.0

One deploy, straight from v1.74.10. It carries v1.75.0 and v1.76.0 as well,
so their DEPLOY.txt files are not needed. No SQL: the Worker makes every new
table and column itself the first time it needs them. One new setting in
Cloudflare, the clock, added once.


IN THIS ORDER
-------------

1. WORKER. Cloudflare, minibus-api, Edit code. Paste worker.js over the old
   one. Deploy.

2. THE CLOCK. Still in Cloudflare, on the same Worker: Settings, then
   Trigger events (or Triggers), Add, Cron Triggers. Schedule: every minute,
   which is  * * * * *  . Add it.

   This is once only. If the labels in the dashboard differ, the thing to add
   is a Cron Trigger on minibus-api with the schedule * * * * * .

3. CODE.GS. Apps Script editor. Paste Code.gs over the old one. Save.
   Then Deploy, Manage deployments, the pencil on the existing deployment,
   Version: New version, Deploy.

   Edit the existing deployment. Do not make a new one: a new deployment gets
   a new address, and config.js and the Worker both use the old one. The new
   version matters because the Worker's knock and the coordinator's app's two
   sheet reports are answered by the deployed copy, not the saved one.

4. Minibus, Rota and setup, Check scheduled emails, set up any missing.
   It should list "Sheet edits reach the live server  (was missing, now set
   up)". If Google asks for permission, allow it.

5. Minibus, Rota and setup, Send everything to the live server now.

6. PAGES. Upload these five to the GitHub repo over the old ones:

       index.html
       sw.js
       config.js
       sunday/index.html
       sunday/sw.js

   and the new folder, with its two files:

       coord/index.html
       coord/manifest.webmanifest

   On github.com: Add file, Upload files, and drag the coord folder from the
   zip onto the page. GitHub keeps the folder. Commit.


AFTER IT
--------

A. The foot of the driver app reads  app v1.77.0 · server w2.18.0 · sheet
   v1.82.0 . A phone still on v1.74.10: close the app fully and open it
   again.

B. Minibus, Have a look, Is the live server working? It says "The live
   server's clock is ticking." If it says the clock has never ticked, step 2
   did not land. Give it a minute after adding the trigger.

C. Open the passenger page on a phone with no booking and no alerts. It
   offers alerts with "No seat booked. Book below." Book a seat. The row is
   on the Bus Bookings tab within about ten seconds. Cancel it and watch the
   row change to Cancelled.

D. Change a stop time on the Bus Stops tab. Stops and bookings on the driver
   app has the new time within about fifteen seconds. Put it back.

E. On the driver app, signed in as yourself, ask for a change on a Sunday of
   yours. "Request sent" comes straight back. The row is on the Rota Requests
   tab and the email in your inbox within about ten seconds. Leave it Pending
   for F.

F. Tap Coordinator on the driver app's first screen and key your PIN. The
   first screen says a rota request is waiting, and its foot reads
   coordinator v1.77.0 · server w2.18.0 · sheet v1.82.0 . Rota requests,
   Turn down. Within about ten seconds the Rota Requests tab says Rejected,
   with a note saying it was decided in the coordinator's app, and the email
   saying it was turned down comes to you.

G. Have a look, Is everything working? The sheet's report comes back within
   about 25 seconds. If it says the spreadsheet did not answer, step 3 did
   not make a new version.

H. Rota, a Sunday about a month ahead, Add a note: Test from the app. Within
   about ten seconds the note is in that Sunday's Notes on the Rota tab, with
   your name and (app) in Updated by. What I have done then says On the
   sheet. A note emails nobody. Delete it on the tab afterwards.

I. Bookings, next Sunday, Book a seat for someone: any stop, 1 seat, your
   own number. It is on the driver app's list at once and on the Bus
   Bookings tab within a minute, noted as booked in the coordinator's app.
   Cancel it from the app, and the tab says Cancelled within a minute.

Then, on an evening before a Sunday, the rehearsal in the README: After the
deploy, rehearse it. Part H there is the coordinator's app.


WHAT CHANGED IN v1.77.0
-----------------------

1. THE COORDINATOR'S APP.
   At coord/ on the same site, reached from the Coordinator button on the
   driver app's first screen. The button shows only for a name with a
   coordinator's role, the same roles that may authorise a stopped bus. It
   carries the name across. The PIN is keyed again and never carried.

   Every change is made under your PIN:
     Rota          who drives or covers each route, which bus runs which
                   route (choosing the other route's bus swaps the two),
                   either route or the whole Sunday called off and put back,
                   a note on the Sunday.
     Requests      the pending ones, approved with a cover chosen from the
                   drivers free that morning, or turned down.
     Bookings      this Sunday and next, stop by stop, with the numbers to
                   ring. A booking cancelled for somebody who rings, or seats
                   booked for somebody without a smartphone.
     Defects       the open ones. Status changed, and closed only with what
                   was done.
     Run record    the last five Sundays. A wrong stop time put right, or a
                   stop nobody tapped given its time. Both are marked
                   Corrected, on the app and on the Trip Events tab, with the
                   time first recorded kept in a note on the cell.
     Have a look   bookings this Sunday, are we over on seats, is everything
                   working, who has alerts on, who is carrying the load,
                   which bus is on which route.

   The first screen also shows what cannot wait: a bus stopped at the
   walkaround, with Authorise; a run still open half an hour after it was due
   at church, with End it; a request waiting; a Sunday over on seats; a
   critical defect; and a change the sheet did not take.

   Each change goes to the live server first and is answered there. Every
   phone sees it at once, the driver app and the passenger page included.
   Within seconds the sheet applies it through the same code a person editing
   that cell sets going: the Status rule, Updated by, the emails to the
   drivers affected. What I have done says On the way, On the sheet, or Not
   taken with the sheet's reason.

   The PIN is checked on every call, reads included, with the same three
   tries and five minute lockout as everywhere else. The page keeps it in
   memory only and locks after 15 minutes untouched (coordApp.idleMinutes in
   config.js). It has no service worker, so it never shows an old screen.

   Left in the spreadsheet: setting or seeing PINs, setup, free-form editing,
   and the rehearsal controls. The app needs a signal.

2. A DECISION ON A CALLED-OFF SUNDAY NO LONGER PUTS THE ROUTE BACK ON.
   Approving or turning down a request wrote Confirmed or Change requested
   into the Rota's Status over North cancelled or South cancelled, and the
   passenger page reads that cell. The Status is now left alone on a
   called-off Sunday, whether the request is decided on the Rota Requests
   tab, from an email link, or in the app.

3. THE NOTE ON A DECIDED SWAP STAYS.
   The note saying who decided a swap was written and then wiped by the edit
   handler that runs after it. It is now written last. A decision made in the
   app says so: Decided in the coordinator's app by ...

4. THE SPREADSHEET'S TWO REPORTS ANSWER THE APP TOO.
   Is everything working? and Who is carrying the load, on the Minibus menu,
   are unchanged. The app asks the sheet for the same reports.


WHAT CHANGED IN v1.76.0
-----------------------

1. ROTA REQUESTS GO TO THE LIVE SERVER FIRST.
   "Request sent" comes straight back, and the sheet files the request a few
   seconds later with the same row, the same Change requested and the same
   email as before. If the Worker does not answer, the app sends it to Apps
   Script as it always did, and a request both saw is filed once. With this,
   every write a phone makes goes to the live server first.

2. A REQUEST FILED ON A CALLED-OFF SUNDAY NO LONGER PUTS THE ROUTE BACK ON.
   The Status is left alone on a Sunday marked North or South cancelled. The
   request is still filed and emailed.


WHAT CHANGED IN v1.75.0
-----------------------

1. ALERTS FOLLOW THE NUMBER TO ANY PHONE.
   Everyone who opens the passenger page is offered alerts, with or without
   a seat. When a phone gives a number or books with one, its alerts move to
   that number, so a booking made on a laptop reaches the phone that has
   alerts on.

2. THE SEDLEY STREET CANCELLATION.
   A race in the drain could leave a cancelled booking saying Booked on the
   sheet for good. Each drain now stamps what it copies, and the Worker marks
   a row done only if it still carries that stamp. The same fix covers stop
   taps, Undo and authorisations. The drain also no longer confirms new rows
   before they are appended, or empties columns you have added to a tab.

   To check Sedley Street on your data, in the D1 console:
     SELECT id, stop, seats, status, received, synced FROM bookings
     WHERE stop LIKE 'Sedley%' ORDER BY id DESC LIMIT 5;
   Cancelled with synced 1, while the sheet says Booked, is this fault.
   After the deploy, set Status to Cancelled on the tab and it reaches the
   Worker.

3. ESTIMATES FROM THE MOMENT THE BUS LEAVES CHURCH.
   The passenger panel gives the minutes and the time straight away.

4. NO LIMIT ON HOW FAR BEHIND AN ESTIMATE CAN BE.
   It used to stop at 45 minutes. maxBehindMinutes in ETA_RULES (Code.gs)
   and eta (config.js) brings a limit back; 0 is no limit.

5. THE ESTIMATE IS KEPT FOR 15 MINUTES PAST ITS TIME.
   keepMinutes. The panel keeps saying "Be at your stop".

6. NO TIMETABLED TIME BESIDE AN ESTIMATE, IN EITHER APP.

7. A BOLD TIME IS AN ESTIMATE, A PLAIN TIME IS THE TIMETABLE, IN BOTH APPS.

8. "MINUTES BEHIND SCHEDULE" AND "MINUTES AHEAD OF SCHEDULE".
   On the passenger panel and on the driver's trip strip.

9. YOUR SHEET EDITS REACH PHONES IN SECONDS.
   The edit trigger from step 4 pushes the Rota, Drivers, Buses, Bus Stops,
   Rota Requests and Defects tabs the moment one is edited. Status or Seats
   changed by hand on a Bus Bookings row now reaches the driver's list. The
   passenger page checks every 15 seconds while bookings are open.

10. PHONE ACTIVITY REACHES THE SHEET IN SECONDS.
   After every booking, stop tap, walkaround and authorisation, the Worker
   asks the sheet to collect. The five minute drain is still underneath.

11. THE LIVE SERVER HAS ITS OWN CLOCK.
   The Cron Trigger from step 2. Every timed message goes at the first minute
   of its window. Without the trigger they go on the five minute sync.


HOW IT WAS PROVED
-----------------

THE SUITE. node tests/run-tests.mjs: 1428 checks, all passed, READY. Three
suites are new since v1.74.10. Run against v1.74.10 / w2.15.0 / v1.79.0:

    25-rulings.mjs           v1.75.0   29 checks, 24 fail. The other five
                                       check that nothing went too far.
    26-requests-live.mjs     v1.76.0    8 checks, all fail.
    27-coordinator-app.mjs   v1.77.0   43 checks, all fail.

IN A BROWSER. On v1.77.0, all twenty driver checks, all six passenger checks
and all seventeen coordinator checks pass. On v1.74.10, the six passenger
checks and T10 to T13 on the driver app fail, and the coordinator checks
cannot start.
